.. include:: xrst_preamble.rst

.. _2022:

!!!!
2022
!!!!

xrst input file: ``release_notes/2022.xrst``

.. meta::
   :keywords: 2022, xrst, release, notes, 2022

.. index:: 2022, xrst, release, notes, 2022

.. _@2022:

xrst Release Notes for 2022
###########################
.. contents::
   :local:

.. _2022@08-15:

08-15
*****
1.  Add ``deprecated`` to the xrst dictionary.
2.  Extend :ref:`keyword` file to remove version number from index.

.. _2022@08-09:

08-09
*****
1.  The colon ``:`` was added to the characters that get changed to
    underbar ``_`` when converting headings to labels; see
    :ref:`heading_links@labels@conversion` .
2.  Sphinx warnings that ocurred while running xrst were not being reported.
    This has been fixed.
3.  Two broken cross reference links (reported by sphinx warnings) were fixed.

.. _2022@08-08:

08-08
*****
1. Fix documentation for relative location of :ref:`file_cmd@display_file`
   in file command and :ref:`child_cmd@file_names` in child commands.
   This changed from where xrst is execute to where :ref:`run_xrst@root_file`
   is located on :ref:`2022@07-30` .
2. Improve the documentation :ref:`index<genindex>`; for example,
   improve :ref:`keyword` .

.. _2022@08-07:

08-07
*****
1. Add the :ref:`run_xrst@-v` option which prints the version of xrst.
2. Put :ref:`run_xrst@root_file@project_name` at top of html documentation.

.. _2022@08-06:

08-06
*****
1. Automatically run sphinx after xrst has created the sphinx input file.
2. Add the :ref:`run_xrst@output_dir` option to the command line.
3. Add the :ref:`file_cmd@no_start_or_stop` syntax to the file command.

.. _2022@08-05:

08-05
*****
1.  Add the :ref:`run_xrst@group_list` option to the command line.
2.  Use the base part of :ref:`run_xrst@root_file` as the sphinx
    project name.

.. _2022@08-04:

08-04
*****
Make :ref:`run_xrst@target` and :ref:`run_xrst@sphinx_dir` optional
command line arguments with default values; see the new xrst
:ref:`run_xrst@syntax`.

.. _2022@08-03:

08-03
*****
The heading links at the
:ref:`heading_links@labels@first_level` were changed
to make it easier to display the section name as the linking text.
You must change ``:ref:`` ` *section_name* `
to ``:ref:`` ` @ *section_name* ` to get the linking text to be the title
(as it was before this change).
The following can be used to convert
*file_name* to this new convention:

|    bin/update_xrst.py ref_section *file_name* *file_name*

.. _2022@07-31:

07-31
*****
Move the hidden toctree commands in rst files from beginning to end
of sections. This puts the parent sections before their children in the
pdf version of the documentation (see :ref:`run_xrst@target` .

.. _2022@07-30:

07-30
*****
1.  Automatically create the file :ref:`auto_file@conf.py`.
2.  Make all file names, except the
    :ref:`run_xrst@root_file`,
    relative to where the root file is located.
3.  The  file names for :ref:`run_xrst@sphinx_dir@preamble.rst`,
    :ref:`run_xrst@sphinx_dir@spelling`, and
    :ref:`run_xrst@sphinx_dir@keyword`, are no longer user selectable.
    These names have bern removed from the ``xrst``
    :ref:`run_xrst@syntax` and the corresponding files are optional
    (no longer required).

.. _2022@07-28:

07-28
*****
1.  Change ``xsrst`` to ``xrst``
2.  Create the first :ref:`user_guide@pip_install` of xrst.

.. _2022@07-27:

07-27
*****
Improve the specification of how the child commands and begin_parent command
interact; see :ref:`child_cmd@children`.

.. _2022@07-26:

07-26
*****
1.  Change the heading level separator character from period ``.``
    to at sign ``@``; see links to headings
    :ref:`heading_links@labels@other_levels`.
2.  Add period ``.`` to the list of valid characters in a
    :ref:`begin_cmd@section_name`.
3.  Change the following section names in the xrst documentation:
    xrst_py -> xrst.py, conf_py -> conf.py.

.. _2022@07-25:

07-25
*****
1.  Require that the suspend and resume commands are in their own line; see
    :ref:`@suspend_cmd`.
2.  A problem was fixed the table corresponding to the
    :ref:`run_xrst@error_line` table.
    To be specific, the indices in the rst file were one larger than
    they should have been.

.. _2022@07-24:

07-24
*****
1.  Remove ignore spelling of latex commands from wish list (done).
2.  Add :ref:`wish_list@standard_indent`,
    Relative File Names, and
    Git Repository entries to wish list.
    Only the Standard Indent entry is outstanding.

.. _2022@07-21:

07-21
*****
Ignore the spelling of all words that are preceded by a backslash
(this ignores all latex commands); see :ref:`@spell_cmd`.
